00:00
From the RBC has?

  Speaker 1 00:01
And effectively. We're doing a one-to-one replication between what the source system sent to us and the bronze tier. So, if they send us, you know, five files. We put five tables into our bronze tier, uh, directly, right? And we organize them by business date and the load time stamp.

00:23
Okay. Um. Then, when we go from bronze to Silver? We're harmonizing that data into a canonical data model. Uh, so effectively, basically making all the data look the same, and our data is, uh, largely organized by Financial product, right? So, if you have, uh? You know? A term deposit.

00:50
As an example, like all the term deposits across the bank, like they work the same, I think they could have the necessary fields for each one of those term deposits represented in our data model. Uh, and we basically just we we map and do everything that we need to do to make the data look the same way in that in that canonical data model.

01:10
When we move the data into the canonical data model, that's where we're applying, uh, change data capture. So, we're only keeping the or sorry, not only keeping, but we're keeping a history of. We're keeping a history of all the changes that we have done.

01:30
Change data capture. So, if it's a new contract, we load a new contract. If it's an existing contract and nothing has changed, we don't load it. If it's a brand new, if it's a changed contract below to new contract, we don't update it. We load a brand new one, okay?

01:48
Um, and so the fundamentally, though, like that canonical data model. It's made up of, um. We'll, we'll say like four major components. The contract component, uh, that's linked to that. These pre-accounting and post accounting fact tables. Is term fact table Loosely, but anyways? Uh, those, uh. Those tables make up.

02:15
Basically, the representation of the contract, so the terms and conditions of the contract and all those types of fields, plus the balances and the events that took place on that contract. So, as an example, like, you can have an investment account. Uh, the. Caught. There's not much contractual information with an investment account like you can think about is like a trading account, right?

02:38
So you don't, not much contractual information there it primarily has to do with. You know, when was the when was the account opened? Was it ever closed? Um. What else we have, like the the primary currency that the account is held in? All these other types of fields, right, that make up the the contract?

03:00
And then, uh, in the balance table, you would see the cash balance of the investment account. So, let's say you have ten thousand dollars, sitting there in cash that you haven't used to purchase any Securities. You'd have a cash balance of ten thousand dollars. Then inside the event table is all of the movements that happened on that.

03:19
All the movements that took place. Uh, in that investment account, so you, you know, at the yesterday, you had ten thousand dollar balance, and today you've boughten, you know? Uh, 10 shares of a stock worth a hundred dollars right, and now your mind is saying a thousand dollars from the cash balance of the account, right?

03:40
So, yeah, events is basically anything that is changing the balance. Of the product balances is the the balance reported by the system? And then we have a security reference information. So, like if you have a security like, you know? Nvidia or something. It has a whole bunch of reference data Associated to it, and we Source that from a security reference data store, same thing for the client information.

04:11
Same thing for the book information, so this is like referent different different cuts of reference data, right? One kind of tricky bit. Is that reference data? So, like, the security involved party and book reference, they are on a different, uh, um. They're on a different timeline from the contract.

04:33
Right. So, like, for example, a client can exist inside of RBC for. 10 years. They may have opened and closed five investment accounts, right? So, you open account, you know, you're, like, oh, I hate RPC. So I'm going to close it. Then I come back and say I couldn't find anything better.

04:51
I'm back to RBC, but like you've always been a client of RBC, you know, what? I mean, so the when you're doing the the the, um, the change data capture? Is happening on a different timeline between the contract information versus security information versus the involved party information versus the book information they're on.

05:09
They're on different timelines, right? Um. So all that said. This information is combined, and we're producing something called. This. These fpsl business event output templates. And what those are is fpsl, which is our subledger that we're integrating with. Uh, they expect a certain data standard to be passed to them so that they can do the accounting, right.

05:42
And that data is broken up into, uh, contract information, uh, involved party information, the event information, uh. And then there's some other stuff, like, uh, foreign exchange currency rates, and this kind of stuff. So, for each system that we perceive data for. Because everything is based on the product.

06:04
Like, we want to treat these products the exact same way. The majority of our pipelines. If we have done this very well. Will be based off of, uh, system and product. But the products code is reused independent of system. Right. So, if I'm receiving term deposits from system a and term deposits from system B, I have to do Source system specific work to map that into the canonical data model.

06:33
But once it's mapped into the canonical data model, I should be able to reuse the data quality checks for term deposits across all systems because I want them all to look the same, right? And similarly, when we generate business events is based off of the product again. Because like different products have different event, you know, taxonomies, and all this kind of fun stuff.

06:54
But again, if we've done our job, right? They should be reusable code depending on each product that we received that we want to publish to fpsl. Right. So, like One Source system, for example, could have five different products, right? And what we should be able to do is, say, if Source system has five different products, we should a be able to load each product independently.

07:18
We should be able to run the data quality rules for each product independently, and we should be able to generate the business events for each product independently. And that kind of gives us that, you know. The the the benefit of a modular code and parallelization when loading the the data set through the process, right?

07:37
So? After we send the data to fpsl, that's where the accounting takes place. Uh, so that you, uh, all the accounting, and then the the main things that they output. Accounting balances and accounting events. So, at this point like, this is the this is now the language that Finance like, truly understands.

08:02
Uh, they have GL accounts. Um. And, uh, that's ultimately the data that ends up inside the the general ledger. But we get the granular version of the information inside these post accounting fact tables. And you can see they're linked back to the original contract. And what this should prove out is we've received.

08:25
Let's say X number of events. From whatever system. Whatever contract like it has the same identifier, right? And we can see how that exact line was accounted for. And why. That's important is, for example, because. You could have a deposit, for example, like my deposit account. And, uh, today, that deposit account is receiving.

08:50
Let's say GL is being assigned gl12345, because as a positive balance. But then, my account went into overdraft. Like, I overspent, you know what I mean, and that actually turns into a loan. So, when the GL account gets assigned, it's now alone and no longer a deposit account. So, what you would see is like the price taxonomy on the contract side, says deposit, but the GL account says loan.

09:15
Right. Finance really only cares about this one, right? But you can do an analysis. For example, to say, you know, how many accounts do you have in overdraft as an example, right? Like, because they're being reported as loans to to finance now, but you say, what percentage of my loan portfolio is actually overdraft deposit accounts as an example, right?

09:33
So, but what this allows us to do is, uh. Reconciliation. Um, so we can reconcile the. Uh, balances and events provided from the source system against the accounted for balances and events provided back from the subledger. And there should only be explainable differences between those two. Right, because, uh, you know, it could be the case that you had to do an adjustment inside the subledger, uh, to rectify an issue?

10:06
But that adjustment line would come in as a as a, you know, as an identified line inside these accounting events and accounting balances, so we should always be able to True up. This is what we sent. This is the accounting that came back. If it's not the same, it's because of these manual adjustments that happen inside the subledger.

10:27
Um. I didn't really cover the control meta part of this. But at the end of the day, what we need to be able to track is, uh, we want to bake in data quality in each one of our data processing pipelines again, based off of the product. And we want to be able to understand, basically, the data quality scores, uh, that, uh, you know, for, for each system and product combination.

10:53
Um, we have to track a data transfer control history. Uh, and you know, this one actually in the the learning, the learning lab that we had kind of answered the question of how we would do this, but because bronze is going to be primarily snapshot based so bronze could have, like, let's say, 100, 000 records for one day, but we only end up loading 20 000 of those records because, you know.

11:23
Uh, 80, 000 of those contracts didn't change at all, right? So, we want to be able to. Basically explain those data transfer control variances with CDC in the loop, just knowing that. You know, the data? The data actually isn't expected to, just, you know. It shouldn't be ten thousand rows ten thousand rows ten thousand rows.

11:48
There's going to be differences between them, but they need to be explainable. Um. So, that's one thing for. For data transfer control history. Uh, we need a concept of run history because one of the, uh, specific requirements that we have is on any given day. We need to have an expectation of what are all the systems and products that we're expected to receive on that day?

12:16
Uh, versus how many have ran versus how many are existing in the pipeline that are being processed currently. But on a given day, I need to have an understanding of what I'm supposed to run versus what ran, and then you know, going back to how many errors took place and everything else right now?

12:31
I was, uh, straightforward as it sounds, because we have a very screwed up holiday calendar, you know what I mean, like global banks? So you got holidays in Singapore and England, and in the US, some trading systems? Send you data on Martin Luther King Day. Other trading systems will send you data on Martin Luther King Day, so they all have their own specific holiday calendars, right?

12:53
But anyway, so we need to be able to store all that information and basically understand. Why does all the data we're expected to receive on a given day and have we received it, and what state is it in and how many errors it processed, etc, etc? Um, finally, reconciliation history.

13:11
We need to be able to reconcile a couple different stages. Um, so far in this stage, like I've talked about one layer of reconciliation basically between your pre-accounting data and your post accounted data. Even on the pre-accounting side, we also want to reconcile our balances versus events. I think I mentioned this earlier, like in the investment accounts.

13:32
It's like, on day one, you'll have a closing balance of, let's say, ten thousand dollars. On day two, you'll have a new closing balance and basically the reconciliation that we need to perform is have. If I take the closing balance from yesterday? And I, you know. Plus, or minus all of the events that took place that day, does it equal the closing balance of the second day?

13:54
And if it doesn't equal the closing balance of the second day, it means that the source system didn't send us all of the events that we expected to send to make up that difference. And that would require, like, a, an adjustment to take place. Somebody would have to effectively upload the difference to say what happened, you know, why did it?

14:11
Why did it move? Or, you know, the balance moved, but the the dollar values didn't, right? The events did not happen. Why do you do that per customer per account per account? Per temp, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So that's that's so far in here kind of. One thing, that's uh, not in this picture, because I'm not 100 sure it's going to exist yet is an adjustment facility on top of this data model.

14:45
So? Um, I think the adjustments that are going to take place for accounting are going to happen inside fpsl. But that's a very so small subset of the total amount of data attributes that we store inside of. Ftp finance data platform. And a lot of the the remainder of those attributes that we store are primarily used for, um, reporting.

15:11
Right? So like. As an example, like, there's something called the Note 5 report. Uh, in the. When we're reporting to shareholders. And that basically breaks down. Your loans, uh, based off of a maturity buckets and the rate sensitivity. So you can have, for example, you know, you'll have a bucket of money that basically says, like all of you, we have these loans, and they're going to expire in the next one to three years, for example, right?

15:43
And, uh. So, but you would never send the maturity date to the subledger. The maturity date only exists on nftp. But so if we receive loans without maturity dates, the accounting happens everything's fine. But then, when you go to run that report, if you don't have maturity dates on all of your loan contracts, what it means is.

16:04
When I generate this report, I'm going to have basically unassigned loans going into the the if you Group by the maturity buckets. You basically have a pile of unassigned money, right? Because they don't have them, they can't fall into a maturity bucket. So, you're gonna have this. Like, other set of data attributes that are critical data attributes that need to be fixed in order to make sure the reporting process is clean.

16:26
Um, and for that, I think we're going to need an adjustment application, like, on top of the Silver Tier data set, where people can. Fix those issues. Uh, in order to make the reporting clean at the end of the day.

  Speaker 2 16:40
I'm assuming there's already in whatever the current system is. There's already capacity for adjustments like those at the whatever is currently called the silver level. Or would that be like a net new sort of? Functionality. We have built them in other places, um. But uh. It's always been. I mean, the we built them in a lot of different places.

17:05
Like, we know how to to build them, uh. But

  Speaker 1 17:08
Uh, you know, the last one that we built, for example, was actually on Hadoop. And, uh, you know? There's no. Uh, acid transactions in Hadoop, so. Different strategy to do it. You know what I mean so, uh? You know? Uh, you know, the Delta tables like, definitely help, uh, with that.

17:33
And, and we can probably build a much better application to to do it here. Um. But uh, but yeah, that one's a that was a tricky topic for a whole other set of reasons. Like, I think for technically, technically, I think it's very feasible. I think the the main problem is is, like, um, the target operating model for the business and everything else, uh, around it?

17:55
Yeah, I looked at it. As with, there's like a QA team in capital markets that basically does a Reconciliation. And,

  Speaker 2 18:06
Uh, quality assessment of some of the trades and activities that happens, and for them currently. The way that we are approaching. It was, um. Using Sigma so that they can make the changes. But then there, and then write it back into, like data, bricks. Um, I see going forward.

18:27
Like, maybe one of the mediums is just building an application. Uh, within databricks, and then you know, that would be your front end to the business or whoever it needs to which, wherever this team is, and then you get another YouTube kind of, like, see what that is, what's being reconciled.

18:47
What are the anomalies, you know? What are the transactions that, uh? That happened, and then obviously right back to the team. The Delta tables and sync them, and then you know we still maintain the history and have everything from our lineage perspective. Yeah, makes total sense. Okay, all right, that's that's a good long, like next phase.

19:14
Yeah, yeah. And then, finally, um?

  Speaker 1 19:19
Well, actually, like, so this part kind of unknown, but like the way that, uh, I have heard of it being implemented in other areas is basically we won't publish to the gold tier until everything has been cleared down. So, basically, your data quality checks have been resolved by adjustments.

19:38
You've gotten back all of your accounting events, etc, etc. There's basically, you know, all of those check marks have popped up. And now we publish to the gold tier. And in our goals here, like our canonical data model. It's basically I'll call it, I'll call it 3 and F, not, not, not falling through an F to the letter, but you know a three and F data model in cyber silver tier?

20:01
Uh, in our goal. Here we have a star schema dimensional model. Um. It would basically be reflecting the most up-to-date. Well, we keep the history in here as well, but you know, um? Uh, it would be like on a given day. We'd only be publishing the active records, you know what I mean, so active records get pushed, but that way it keeps it.

20:23
You know in in sync? Yep, but uh. It's Star schema dimensional data model specifically. So, you know, using things like power bi or something like that, you can kind of use the cube functionality where you're just dragging and dropping. Your measures and your dimensions and producing your ad hoc reports that way.

20:42
But for more. Um, controlled data sets that we'll need to maintain, uh, like their own history of. Uh, will create, probably, uh, one big data. Uh, or one big table data products out of that. So, for example, like a retail loans table, or like, uh, you know, a derivatives table something like that to?

21:06
So, all of those, like Financial regulatory reports that need to be generated, we would generate them directly off of those. Uh, one big data tables. And you know it, just there was one big data tables. Basically, it's just the the easiest way to have your lineage from table to to report and also give a a very simple viewable data object to the business to to use.

21:33
Um, yeah, that's

  Speaker 2 21:34
Fair. That's where we might want to have, like, that being a little bite temporal from that standpoint. If it's for break reporting? Yeah, yeah, exactly.

  Speaker 1 21:47
Um, now the last one. I don't have it pictured here unfortunately, or maybe I'll just draw. I'll I'll draw a separate picture for it, but one of the one of the big requirements that we also have is this concept of a drill back functionality. So? As data moves through this pipeline, it loses.

22:07
Granularity and descriptive context. So, from the canonical data model fpsl, we don't lose granularity, but we lose descriptive context. Like us, joining it back to the original contract so we can regain the descriptive context, right? But when it goes to the GL, that's where we lose granularity from fpsl to GL.

22:27
The data gets aggregated up on What's called the GL code block level. And at that point, you don't have the ability to understand what this balance is made up of.

  Speaker 3 22:39
Right, so?

  Speaker 1 22:41
Um, you know, you get balance of you. You see, whatever the code block is, there's like six data attributes six or seven or eight data attributes in there. The balances are aggregated up at that level, and then if somebody's like, what's making up this 10 million dollar balance in this Transit GL currency combination, right?

23:01
How do I? How do I explore the data underneath this right? And it kind of does two things for you, like one. Uh, that's kind of how you can reconcile your. Account your granular information that you're ultimately going to use for financial regulatory reporting. Against your general ledger, which is supposed to be your source of Truth right from a finance perspective.

23:29
So? We have to solution a way to be able to drill back from aggregated balances back down to the granular level of information. And. We have an idea of how to do that. Um. But uh. But yeah, I wonder, you know, not to answer now or anything, but if you had to implement a requirement similar to that somewhere else?

24:04
So forbid to y'all. Okay, so what do you think about this a little bit? So, what we're saying from? We have an aggregated value in the GL, but it's come from fpsl. And.

  Speaker 2 24:19
If we. There, we have to have some sort of relationship. We need that data somewhere. Like within databricks in this case. To say what that? What's available?

25:03
Available, where is it? And then, if we are pushing down that information, one is like the primary key that we're we're looking at from that perspective, and then what's that, like, what's a joint going to be right? And is that join? Um. Uh, let's call it resilient, right? Like, in terms of, you know, um, is there?

25:29
Can there be multiple? Like, if we're for joining out at an account level, right? Or like that, TL level can there be multiple transactions on that GL? Um, what does that actually look like? So, just looking at permutations and making sure that we Define the right primary key, I think, is the key part there.

25:49
Yeah, yeah, this is how we thought about it was basically if I take.

  Speaker 1 25:55
If I take the GL code block, which is something like this? And if I take? This set of information? Yeah. And I hashed it, and I hash it, not the dollar value, but everything else if I match this. And if I go and apply, I have all this information in FTP.

26:17
And I create the same hash. It means that this underlying data? Makes up this hash. Anytime you have your feet. Yeah, yeah, so I invent a key.

  Speaker 2 26:28
On those things,

  Speaker 1 26:29
You know, what I mean? Yeah, and then I can kind of. Traverse through in an easy way. Yeah, I think that's. That's fair, like, I mean, uh, at a macro level, it all makes sense to me. Yeah, yeah,

  Speaker 2 26:45
All right. Like,

  Speaker 1 26:45
There's no way around it rather. Like, we just have to have a key, which we're identified here. Now, we just need to. What we need to validate?

  Speaker 2 26:56
Is that? Is there any risks of having a key like this? I don't think so, right? Like, uh, from that perspective, and would there ever be any missing data? From from this perspective from a key saying, how do we make sure we have that validation in place to be like?

27:16
Hey, these are the nine fields that we require, and none of them are null, or if it is null, then it is, uh, supplemented right? We just need to make sure what the outputs and inputs are on both sides.

  Speaker 1 27:29
Yeah, fully agree. So, like, yeah, if

  Speaker 2 27:33
We,

  Speaker 1 27:33
If I look at the Geo like this, and then where it says FTP level one. If I get the same hash, then I I? I can sell these two. I can say, okay, these two ten thousand dollars each. I'm happier, and then in level two, where I give you the granular information.

27:47
That's where I still have the same hash key, regardless of the contract inside of fdp, right? But like, I can add more and more. Dimensions to this table. So, for example, in this case, we just added the source system of record originating, and then whoever did the accounting, right?

28:03
But you can keep adding all the way up to the contract ID, and the balances would just keep getting broken down further and further, because all of them would have the same hash, right? Exactly as long as these two numbers match, then this is fine. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I think this is just, uh.

  Speaker 2 28:21
This works. We just need data validation as we go through these steps to ensure that fdp level two is consistent. But yeah, yeah, and as long as that, as long as those checks are made, then we're okay to report otherwise. Do not report, like, you know what I mean, like it goes into our our q18 that we talked about earlier or whatever way that we want to, um?

  Speaker 1 28:49
Right. Yeah,

  Speaker 2 28:50
Yeah, okay, okay,

  Speaker 1 28:51
So yeah, I've taken up quite a bit of time, but uh, the main things that I'll say is, uh, I think what we can do, uh, is. Um. Maybe the first area of focus for us is moving data from the bronze tier into the silver tier right. And, uh.

29:09
You know, maybe then the next area of focus is going to be around, uh, control metadata? And then, the next year, you know, we can decide from there, but? Uh, this first stuff from bronze to Silver. We've done this using notebooks, and now Abhishek has tried to do it using spark declarative pipelines.

29:28
So, maybe Abhishek, you can present that now and get the and and maybe if you guys are okay with that, we can move on to that first step. Yep.

  Speaker 2 29:39
Okay, okay, sure, yeah, go ahead. Yeah, one second, let me share my screen. Okay, so I will give.

  Speaker 4 29:49
A brief about the notebook Implemented earlier. Um, so is my short right on our. Silver layer. We are trying to build a canonical model.

  Speaker 1 30:00
And in our first equation. What we did is.

  Speaker 2 30:04
We have five to six tables. Uh, related only to? Contracts. And. We went ahead. And you know, created this notebook. So, for each tables. Uh, basically, we manually implemented a CD. All the Logics, right? Um, at that time, we were not aware that, uh, you know, light is allowing.

30:27
Um, spark regulatory pipeline. Um. Yes, so, but one thing we realize is, like, um. As we have done everything in SQL, right? These are when it executed sequential. It's this tables can load in parallel, but because of how it is structured, it is unable to load. Um, and one of the like design principle.

30:52
Um, we are evaluating, not finalized yet, but we want to know, like, we want to write as much as in SQL than using, uh, you know, spark apis? Um, and the reason is. Lot of transformation. Is easier to understand, right? Uh. The the information is not hidden, right? So that's the principle.

31:16
We want to follow. And as spark declared, a pipeline can understand the dependencies between sequels, right? It can execute in parallel. What we did is, uh. You know, started with? Simple table first. So, we have. Data in bronze. And contract is a very simple. It's like all the unique contracts, right?

31:41
What we have seen till now, um?

  Speaker 1 31:45
So he created a pipeline. Let me.

  Speaker 2 31:53
Um, so create structure, table streaming table, sorry. Um. Doing all our mapping in the view temporary. And then Auto CDC. Um, as we are experimenting this for the first time, right? Um, my first question is.

32:16
Is it good to have Dynamic parameters? Declarative pipelines. And like. What I understood. Looking at the documentation is like internally. Spark has some checkpoint mechanism, right, like? Till

  Speaker 4 32:35
Where it has seen the data in the bronze table light, and as then, when there are changes on the bronze table, it automatically does the CDC. But let's see if you want to rerun a pipeline. In that case, we might need to supply a business date.

  Speaker 2 32:52
A. Uh, practice to have Dynamic. Variables. Uh, I would say yes, depending on the different needs. Like, uh, let's say you're building more of a like a pipeline recipe. Like, it's definitely a good usage of. Reusing the same power plane and just providing different input output. Then you have only one code to maintain, and you can reuse it across different.

33:19
Across different, uh, the different different pipelines. Yes, right. So, so that was the um?

  Speaker 4 33:27
You know, thought process behind you, right? The same code, which we can use for auto CDC as well as if there are any issues right to use it. But, like, while experimenting.

  Speaker 2 33:37
What I observed is that now, I'll show you one run. So, initially, when I ran the pipeline, um, you know, 300, 000 records got loaded? Um. Then I was. Um, injecting the parameter, right? So? Jobs sdp jobs. So, for example. So then? You know, I'm injecting the business date here.

34:08
Um, and then when I try to run again, it's showing zero output record. Um, and my first question was like it has already seen the data, right? It already process it. So then I went ahead and delete. The entire table. Uh, where is that? Yeah, so tranquet doesn't work so, uh, you know, I dropped the entire streaming table.

34:33
And this is what experimentation would so?

  Speaker 4 34:35
And then again, I ran the job, but still, it is showing zero output records.

  Speaker 2 34:44
Even if you refresh the whole pipeline, that's what you said.

  Speaker 4 34:48
I deleted the table.

  Speaker 5 34:52
Yeah, usually, like, yeah, playing with sdp. You try to not manually change anything if you're okay. Let's say you go back to your pipeline. Yeah, if you want to reuse the same code, then you'll have to do.

  Speaker 4 35:06
Um, going to your job, not the job run, go, like, go. One step like sdp jobs?

35:22
And if you were to like reprocess the whole thing, then what you need to do is?

  Speaker 5 35:27
Uh, let's, let's. Let's just kill the Run. The second over here.

  Speaker 4 35:37
And then, like, let's just wait a minute, it's ready to stop it. Then, it's gonna be good.

  Speaker 5 35:43
You have to do it. Like, basically, you don't. You don't do a run pipe plane, go like the, uh, arrow, just on the right, and then full table refresh. Okay, and this is how you rerun the process. Yeah, but let's say we are trying to keep, uh?

  Speaker 4 36:00
Data in bronze for 30 days, right? Yeah,

  Speaker 5 36:03
And

  Speaker 4 36:03
Then we will move it to Silver. Now, imagine we are. Second year. In the future, right? If I do full refresh, will it drop? Yeah, it will tell it. It will fail. What would be the intent of doing a full refresh, um?

  Speaker 5 36:24
You can go back, let's say, like, because how it works, you'll have your your log. You can go back in time of what you kept in memory, but you cannot go back. Like, if you were to, you have to rerun the whole thing. Last, I checked, I can. I can look if there's any changes that happened there.

36:39
Uh, yeah, we just have to make sure, like? Uh, yeah, what's the use case of doing some of those refresh?

  Speaker 3 36:48
Is the Full Table refreshed just so that you can test that specifying a business date actually works? Is that? Is this something that you're just going to be doing while you're testing, or is this something that you foresee doing when you're like actually running in production? So?

  Speaker 4 37:06
Actually, this is for testing, right? I, I don't have a situation. I'll do the full refresh. But like. Um, you know, if I do full refresh, then? Like, my understanding was. Once the data is gone from bronze. Um, then I lose my data in silver. And the intent is you will delete.

37:34
In silver. After 30 days, then the data's gone. You're gonna have, like?

  Speaker 5 37:40
Uh, even like a cold storage, or you're not keeping any memory of those changes. So, um, silver, we will retain it, for I think seven to ten years. Okay, but but bronze, we want to, you know, remove it.

  Speaker 4 37:53
30 days, 60 days, 90 days. Whatever, like, shorter period of time, right? Okay. Yeah, so, yeah, so, like, you see the problem, right? That's awesome. My bronze also will need to keep in it based on current, uh? Archival.

  Speaker 6 38:16
Come into clones also, right? Yeah, but we'll be loading into the canonical data model.

  Speaker 1 38:24
I don't know if we need bronze. I don't know if we need bronze for as long as we need the data and silver. Yeah, okay, because bronze is really there, like at the end of the day for us. Like we, we haven't determined how long we're going to keep it for like 30, 60, 90 days, two years.

38:42
Whatever, whatever right, we just know that, like, it's gonna grow much faster than silver because it's snapshot based and not not scd2, but you know, I mean, like, no, no change. Data captures happening in our bronze tier at the end of the day. The only real reason they keep it in.

38:57
You know, keep it in bronze for some duration of time. In case we need to replay something, something went wrong and we need to redo everything. But. We also have the same data, and I don't know what the retention policy of it's going to be over. There is like sitting on an S3 bucket on Prem 2, right, so?

39:15
How long we need to keep the rise? The pre-transformed data for? Open question, but what one thing that I think back to like the root of it before we got into that conversation was? So abuse that you populated that that table right. And now you wanted to rerun with a specific business date, yes.

39:38
But, uh, you couldn't and nothing got loaded because, like, the system knows that you already loaded that information. Yep, so you drop the table? Then you tried to run it again and still nothing got loaded, right? Yes, so is there like, is there a a system table somewhere that basically is like this.

39:58
There's a system table somewhere that's tracking what, what the spark declarative pipeline has done previously versus what's done now, and maybe dropping the table doesn't drop the information from that system table that keeps track of everything.

  Speaker 5 40:09
The best practice, I think, for your specific use case, would have been enough to delete the table, but just. To go back in time to the point in time. Like, let's say you, like, you want to rerun. You provide the date and time.

  Speaker 4 40:24
Less than 30, 60, 90 days that you keep your brands. You go back to that point, and then you rerun. I think I, I could test

  Speaker 2 40:32
It out, but that would be the appropriate rule because, you know, STD. Type 2, you don't want to mess with the economical, like the silver layer, because you don't want to have a new insert and you won't have inserts like in between times, like those happens in real time.

40:46
Uh, and this is like, you don't like, you don't manually, uh, provide data unless you like, maintain your own. Um, I would say your own metadata. But like, we have to keep this in mind. Like, I think the yes, the best practice would have been go back in time to that point in time, and then restart the job.

  Speaker 3 41:06
Chad, is there also I, I? I'm kind of foggy on this, but um, I remember the whole idea around, uh, dropping managed tables versus external tables. Like, is there something where, like? If they, if you drop the table. And then, like, recreates it again. The data, it's just the metadata that's getting deleted, and not the actual data.

41:30
And so when he, like, undrops it, the data, just like the table just exists as it, like I'm trying to forget which way it is is, if managed, tables are, if external tables, it's the metadata drop or data drop only. Um, but maybe that's what's going on?

  Speaker 4 41:44
Yeah, so I think that would be external, um, Adam. The sdp examples within RBC. They are all managed, so I think you can correct me wrong, like? Does like platform supports sdp external tables because I, I don't have access to? Um, you know, file system here. Right. From that perspective, I think the idea is to use managed from that perspective.

42:16
Is that in this case, when you are?

  Speaker 2 42:20
Oh, to when you are doing SCD type 2 and you're trying to do deletes? A you're, you're generally gonna run into issues because we capture already that history of that record. And because it's already there, there is a method and I'll let Chad double click on this part, but there is a method in terms of how to do this and you, and it's just the approach that you talked, right?

42:45
So don't do that method. We'll show you a different method otherwise. You have to do a restore. There's things have to do. We ran into this issue. Um. I would say like a year ago or a year and a half ago with, like, uh, what we're working with? Uh, Global cyber security, right?

43:05
Like, similar things we had different previews at that time, which we have different things that are? That we've introduced. I just want to make sure that we capture the latest method for your team and then tell you exactly how to like, hey, I have something. How do I, you know, delete it, rerun it, uh, and what's up proper workflow, so we'll definitely get back to you on that on that one.

43:29
That would be really helpful for us.

  Speaker 5 43:34
And like just one letter, so it all happens in the like. The chat pointing that is like automatically taken care of. Uh, so, yeah, it's. Let's say you want to have apply like manual changes to like the spark calculator. Let's understand what you need, and we'll figure out like the best way to do it.

43:54
So? Basically, the idea is. Um, you're in a normal situation. Um, this job will run. It has an ETF pipeline right wrongs to Silver. Um.

  Speaker 4 44:12
Due to X reason, right? Data got not loaded or? Something got failed. We may need to rerun it, right? So what I was thinking is we can use this job parameter, and I think.

44:28
Lumina also supports injecting job parameters. So? Let's say, and I was experimenting right. Business data is this 815? How we have mapped? Um and pipeline is so that this is the job.

44:49
And in pipeline. We have mapped using this way. Um, so I am not sure this is the correct way.

  Speaker 5 44:58
Tool links because and the reason I'm saying, I'm not sure, is because I don't see. Injecting a business day is doing anything. It's between the entire load, but it's not doing anything.

  Speaker 2 45:13
I think this is basically how you've con. Like, it's not the business state here that is causing issue. It's like the sdp cannot just go back in time and rerun that once it's run it, you can just go back in time. So, I think this is more like where you're, you're having your issues and not the other way around.

45:28
Okay, so let's say now, if I cannot run it, uh, then there is no point of configuring. Um, this is where condition right.

  Speaker 4 45:41
Um, in my Seiko. It's like, it's redundant, then,

  Speaker 5 45:45
And in in your specific case. Yes, then there's no real need because it will always just shake what's new and add to the to the pipeline. Okay. So, Mike. You see this challenge?

  Speaker 4 46:00
But at the same, but at the same time, let's say. We want to rerun it or replay the data. How we can do it. Should we re-ingjust into bronze again? Is there any other way?

46:22
So, I think if you want to rerun, I think that's when it comes back to sort of. What Chad was talking about is, you have to revert because we have. Sort of like point in time travel with.

  Speaker 3 46:34
Uh, with our Delta tables, you're able to like what you'll want to do is go back in time. To the point in which you know you're trying to rerun your pipeline to and then rerun it again with the new the new data load. It wouldn't be deleting the data that the most recent data from when you want to run until now and then rerunning it.

46:55
It would be going back in time and then rerunning it. Um, and that will be done via SQL command, right? Uh, it will be done.

  Speaker 2 47:08
Yeah, the same. This the the same way with your pipeline, uh? Uh, see on the road on the side.

  Speaker 5 47:21
But yeah, I think for this specific use case, let me test it out.

  Speaker 4 47:23
Okay, and like making

  Speaker 5 47:25
Sure I can, I can actually rerun from a specific date. Um. And I'll provide you the answer, exactly? So we don't like, just go back and forth. I think that the yeast is pretty clear. I haven't, uh, done it so far. Sure, perfect.

  Speaker 4 47:41
If you need anything, I can send it across as well. Configuration or you can take a screenshot it, like the main point is. How we have configured these parameters? Um, and and again, like, these questions are, you know, related to the rdb like run the bank? Basically, once we hand over this pipeline to production, right?

48:02
They need to do all this replays run again. And for them. It would be difficult to write a query.

  Speaker 5 48:10
It would be easier for them to trigger a job, or you like, click on a restart button so.

  Speaker 6 48:16
I, I wouldn't see this applied. Okay, now. Sorry, I understand your question. I wouldn't see this applied to like a SQL query. I think it would be definitely part of a job with a like a feature. It would just be rerun this job, but like with this specific date in mind and not like today, for instance of like, what's like, the point in time where you get the new data, or like the past data, right, okay, and um?

  Speaker 5 48:42
As I said, I like these things will grow, right? So many sources them, the contract will grow. Um, you don't want to accidentally. You know, do a full refresh or something. So, I was just reading it through.

49:01
Any useful table properties that we should consider, right? Just just let us know or what you have seen.

49:10
Other use cases.

  Speaker 6 49:16
Um, I will look maybe. What could make sense for us? Yeah, I'll I'll get back to you with that one as well. Okay, perfect. And um.

  Speaker 5 49:26
Last thing I haven't tried. Take this out, but okay, so I'm going through this pipeline. From the event log, I will extract how my record got inserted. And changed, right? And then we will write it to our own operational table. To from event log. Event lot is.

  Speaker 6 49:53
Uh, yeah, I run this from, uh, like the sequel, uh, the queries, the SQL editor. Otherwise, I think from here, it will, uh, oh, no, it was working, just like. It was something like this. Oh, I don't even know I couldn't. I could do that from there.

  Speaker 5 50:24
Yeah, see. Yeah, so actually, it's a just as people I just didn't know. You could get the output from. The the the specific class place. Would that make sense?

  Speaker 4 50:39
Let's say I want to capture my input parameters in case we go ahead with, you know, let's a business date. Input parameters. How many output codes recorded where I could find them because I was checking this table and I was not at all finding?

  Speaker 5 50:59
My dresses.

  Speaker 6 51:00
Okay, so what you mean from that? So, let's say you, you, you have a job, and you want to know what was the input that you've provided. Yeah, so input, I think I think I just looked at it input. I can get it from here. But the output record count, right?

  Speaker 5 51:16
So for this?

  Speaker 4 51:20
Uh, table. What was the output recorder?

  Speaker 5 51:24
How many

  Speaker 4 51:25
New inserts were there? Oh, okay, uh, this is available.

  Speaker 5 51:36
You have, let me. You, uh, which is not the serverless. No, no, um?

51:54
Um, I've I've searched this already. Let me remember exactly.

52:04
I wonder if maybe this one will come more from the? Uh, you are the output the red stream with you.

  Speaker 6 52:40
Can you see if there's any even types like flow progress or something? Yeah, I was gonna say the same thing. Look at that. Update progress.

  Speaker 3 52:58
Yeah, I think under, exactly, under the events that are flow progress event types. There should be, uh, like metrics, and then num output rows.

  Speaker 4 53:06
Okay, so I need to go to find those. Okay, slow event type. Yeah, yeah. So, the event type will be flow, underscore progress, okay.

  Speaker 3 53:20
And then, within that, it'll be dot metrics.num underscore output rows. Okay. Okay, so you probably haven't seen that. Experiment and check it out! Yeah, so.

  Speaker 4 54:03
Okay, and um. Now! Doing this sdp. One thing I realized is. So, DLT and SDP. It's just not rebranding, but there are like syntax differences as well.

  Speaker 2 54:21
Yes, like that, yeah, you're right, yeah. So, for example, the streaming live is a part of dld and not sdp, but the question is, is it the right way to do it? And if I was removing this, it was causing issues.

  Speaker 5 54:44
Yes, you're right. There is some differences.

  Speaker 6 55:03
I could try to give you like all the differences of one to the other. Like, let's say, like two columns, uh, DLT, on one side and sdp on the other side, just to see what what is different from one another. Yeah, I mean, what I'm looking is?

  Speaker 5 55:21
Whichever is the latest, right? So, if sdp is the latest, and is it the right? Way to do it, or I am mixing two things up, so I think you can take the screenshot and. Of this, and then you can let me know.

  Speaker 6 55:33
Okay, I'll take a screenshot. Yeah. Like, when I try to remove, uh, you know? Um, it was causing. Issues. Basically like, you cannot use this and. With stream type. Um, and I think that's. That's it. That's, that's all. I had, and the main. The main answer.

  Speaker 5 56:04
I'm searching for is the dynamic variable and? It would be highly appreciated if you can find it. Yeah. The the, I think you create a refreshment, realize you is the right one.

  Speaker 6 56:19
Temporarily shooting up. No, I think, uh, internet use great tempering view. Okay, it's kind of similar. Okay, I'll provide a list of like, what's different between one another so we can clarify, yeah.

  Speaker 2 56:35
Perfect! Thank you. Uh, Mike, you have.

  Speaker 5 56:44
And the last thing Irishek. I could mention I know you work. You want to work with SQL. There's what. There's two things around CDC, there is the auto CDC, but there's also the auto CDC from snapshot, since you're getting like brand new files every time. And what you can do is use from snapshot.

57:06
So, he's going to re-run, like a verification, and you can provide like the different columns that you want to monitor for a change or not, and it's going to be like a lazy pipeline. If, like, if I don't know if that's the right word, but it's only gonna make a change on the data, um, on, from, uh, those snapshots.

57:26
If, uh, it's highlighted in the column that's want to monitor, so I, I think we could compare the two, uh.

  Speaker 4 57:34
I will tell you like I saw those indexes for snapshot, but what happens like when we say files, we are dropping files to an on-prem location, right, and? There is this Lumina-like platform, which does Auto CDC and brings it to bronze table. So we don't have direct control on the files.

  Speaker 5 57:58
Hence, we can't use those snapshot. You see, but the files that you're getting.

  Speaker 6 58:03
Are the full snapshot, or you only get the Delta full snapshots? So, you get full snapshot. So, what are the the, what do you not have control on? Sorry, so the files are.

  Speaker 5 58:17
You know, push two on-prem S3 location, yes, and then, um. You might have heard seeing us. There is a Lumina team, right, Lumina, platform.

  Speaker 6 58:26
So, what they does,

  Speaker 5 58:27
Is they map those files to the bronze tables? So we don't have access to any ADLs location, or you know, the the underlying files? We directly deal with the bronze tables.

  Speaker 6 58:41
Well, that I understand, but you can still take the the bronze table for, uh, for snapshot, as sorry, is it okay, because on the syntax, I thought it was like it has to do with underlying files.

  Speaker 4 58:55
Uh, no, you can. You can provide the source type. I can verify that one as well. Okay, just to mention, yeah. Okay. Yeah, I made me wrong because I was checking it. What you'll get is just, uh, you'll monitor.

  Speaker 6 59:15
So, what you could do is every time you get a new Delta table?

  Speaker 4 59:21
You

  Speaker 6 59:21
Could, let's say you, you pick like a. Like a a pipeline bronze location, you would take like the the one that is landing you would do over like, um. Uh, what's the word? Um, you could. What you could do is do an overwrite to like the let's say you have a bronze table that is going to be the pipeline every time you you take that Source.

59:43
You do an overwrite with, uh, the Delta log. I think it's. Um, yeah, I forgot that Delta change feed? Yes, uh, Phil, thank you that, uh, and this will, uh, have like the, it will monitor the delete the update and the new values, and that would feed the pipeline.

1:00:05
I think it could be like an easier way to actually run it.

  Speaker 5 1:00:10
Okay, so I was checking this one, so you were seeing this CD upgrade?

  Speaker 4 1:00:16
Ah, this one, the auto CDC from snapshot. This one only works on python.

  Speaker 5 1:00:30
Oh, why

  Speaker 6 1:00:31
Is it? Why did I see limitation on where I see this limitation then?

  Speaker 3 1:00:37
Chad. Don't worry, I'm seeing that, too. I was about to bring that up. Maybe,

  Speaker 6 1:00:41
Yeah. The I on this one interesting, I can share in that. Oh, we don't have a chat, right? So,

  Speaker 5 1:00:47
I think, okay, okay, this is the first data table. And, yeah, the snapshot is from python. Yeah,

  Speaker 6 1:00:54
Exactly. So, here you do a from snapshot flow, so you would have your bronze with, uh, uh, change the Delta change, feed enable, and then this with an overwrite every time, so you would keep all your.

  Speaker 5 1:01:07
Lending files. The amount of time you want, but anytime you want to have a new asset, you take that Source. You override it to your bronze. If you want to do best, you can do multiple of those overrides as well. There will be tracked and then any, and you see here exactly that starts at ndash.

1:01:24
Uh, oh, sorry, that's that. But, yeah, it's doable. I, I can prepare a kind of quick demo on it if you want. Okay, perfect. Yeah, I'll also check this out.

  Speaker 4 1:01:33
Yeah,

  Speaker 5 1:01:33
Yeah, but, but, as I said right, our first preference would be on a cleaning SQL something like this so that we have nice pipeline view. What's happening? Understood. Yeah, all right.

  Speaker 4 1:01:58
Thank you, Chad Adam bouncer, uh, Mike, you have anything else?

1:02:11
Um, the only thing for the CDC that I think we. Talked about. Briefly, but I don't think it was implemented. Here was the.

  Speaker 1 1:02:22
Uh, right now. I think Abhishek is purely off of load time stamp, right?

  Speaker 5 1:02:28
Uh, yes,

  Speaker 1 1:02:29
There needs to be, uh, like load time stamp within a business day. So, I think they had that beta functionality, um, get the term of it, um? Um, your watermarks, you mean, like, you want to have, like, a day of?

  Speaker 6 1:02:48
Like a windowing. Yeah, like, let's say, sequence by basically.

  Speaker 1 1:02:54
Uh, yeah, but you need to. I think you need to seek respite business data and by load timestamp, right? Because basically, what happens

  Speaker 5 1:03:02
Is, they would

  Speaker 1 1:03:03
Say we have a business state come in. Um, with load time stamp. And then, let's say, two days later. We get the same business stage, so it's like, I only want to insert those records. Like as a version two of that business state. You know what I mean?

1:03:29
So? Um. Uh, we had conversation with a Nasser on that databricks training day. Um, where, um, I think the auto CDC that? Uh, being shown was, uh, it was being sequenced on load timestamp. Right. So, basically, if I get a load time stamp that's later than what's currently inserted, then Auto CDC will apply it based off that load timestamp.

1:04:02
But what we need to do is do it by business day and load timestamp so that I get a new version of the data for that business day, and not just a new version of the data period, because because, realistically, what I'm what we need to do is like, we need to apply Auto CDC based off of that business date that was processed earlier and not the latest version of the contract.

  Speaker 6 1:04:24
Okay, so, uh, if I can understand correctly? You want to have a new value and just part of the column. That would have a change applied. The business day would be one, and if they update, then you get a new value.

  Speaker 1 1:04:38
Um, you know. So, like, basically like the scenario is on day one. Like, let's say, the business day, September 22nd, right. We loaded data set. We found a bunch of uh issues with that data, right, and then a source system says I'm going to resend you September 22nd tomorrow, right?

1:04:58
Okay. Yeah, but the the lines with the the example that?

  Speaker 6 1:05:05
Abhishek is showing, so you want to be able like to reprocess, maybe two days ago, and then with the new. Like, let's say, you have a new. Uh, update of like two days ago, but you would run two days ago like yesterday, and then today, for instance. Yeah, but I think that, uh, there was.

  Speaker 1 1:05:22
Uh, some beta functionality that was created in databricks, and I think it came out of an RBC use case.

  Speaker 7 1:05:29
Yeah, so I think

  Speaker 8 1:05:30
I

  Speaker 3 1:05:31
Think, what's what you're referring to? Yeah, there's a beta feature where for auto CDC you can do stored as bite temporal instead of stored as SCD. One or two, I think that's what NASA was, was getting out there. Sounds familiar.

  Speaker 4 1:05:47
Yeah,

  Speaker 3 1:05:47
So we can ex. We can definitely explore that, but I think there's also, I mean, Chad here is a good point. Like, if we can just do a historical backfill, maybe we don't even need to do that. Like, we don't need to get beta features involved at all. But maybe there's a world where we can just do this?

1:06:02
But maybe this is something we need to work out over the next because we can

  Speaker 6 1:06:05
Compare. I think it lets if if it's like in, uh, minus two days, it could be reasonable to just reprocess, but if it gets more complex, we could look at the future, I'll I'll let's. Let's, uh, sync Adam and see, maybe, what makes sense? Yeah, yeah.

  Speaker 3 1:06:21
Yeah, so, yeah, okay, that's, uh, that makes sense, though, um, I think, in terms of? I guess next steps are just just things to prep for next week, so I know, Chad, you've. You've got a couple demo pieces you said, you want to put together for Abhishek for next week around Auto CDC.

1:06:42
Um, I think there's a few points. Uh, let me see just trying to see.

  Speaker 7 1:06:48
Um, around Dynamic parameters.

  Speaker 3 1:06:53
Um, historical backfilling Auto CDC from snapshot. Those kind of demos, I, I'm sure, Jen, you have it all written down anyways. I don't know you rehash everything. Um, but is there anything else? As we've looked in next week that we'd want to like that, you guys on the RBC side would want us to prep for.

1:07:12
Um. Yeah, looking. Looking to next Tuesday?

  Speaker 4 1:07:23
Okay, let's give

  Speaker 1 1:07:25
It a. Let's give it a sink, and we'll send an email out in the next day or so.

  Speaker 6 1:07:28
Okay, that sounds great.

  Speaker 3 1:07:30
Yeah. And then, if yeah, of course, as always, if there are any questions we can either log them all up and save them for next Tuesday, or we can do a little hockey sync stuff. Whatever we, whatever we're feeling,

  Speaker 1 1:07:41
Yeah, I think maybe what we can do, uh, Abhishek and Raul is, maybe, um? So, if we go with spark declarative pipelines, uh, Abhishek. And I'm not sure how much it invalidates of the DTC work that Raul is implemented. You know, yeah, um. So, maybe we can go over?

1:08:04
Yeah, we'll have to go over what we implemented in terms of. Did you see that we currently have? And then, um, maybe we can work with the gay bricks team to say, like, how can you replicate this if we start to clear the pipelines, right, perfect?

1:08:25
Awesome! Well, this is a great um.

  Speaker 3 1:08:28
First iteration, I guess of the first, first, great first day. It's like a, it's like a startus on a venue, I guess, um, back to school in September. It's good. Yeah, yeah. Um, but yeah, thank you. Thanks for taking the time guys. It was good to to walk through all this stuff and getting the nitty-gritty.

1:08:45
I'm certainly gonna have to learn a little bit more about how accounting actually works because some of that was some of the diagrams at the beginning. I was, like, oh gosh. But uh, we can. We can work through that. Yeah, yeah, great to great to chat with you guys.

1:09:01
Perfect! Awesome! Thank you! Thank you for the day, guys! Thank you, but.

  Speaker 4 1:09:16
Okay, it's okay, done.

1:09:25
What? What do you want? Go to go to create Leo.

  Speaker 7 1:09:36
I said, go to clay. I said, go to crate.

1:09:45
I said, go come. Come go!

  Speaker 4 1:13:06
So you can make it as I'll be on vacation.




  Speaker 1 00:00
Who basically like make changes to the model and deploy those changes quickly. You know what I mean? And now, like what, I'm kind of looking clear about, is like these, like, uh, um, you know, between perspective Creative pipelines, um? Make this similar Evolution cables, right? Um, like, I guess one, is it possible via via notebook, and when we do evolve the schemas like, do we still have to go to the ml Ops platform?

00:32
Right. To register the new problems and stuff,

  Speaker 2 00:34
But so, yeah, that's the important concept. So, if we go with SDP, might not need to do that. The reason being streaming tables are created via the pipelines, not via LED. So, what let does? Is it sinks back once the table is created? Like, while I was explaining data breaks, right?

00:57
You might have seen that create streaming table syntax in my pipeline

  Speaker 1 01:00
Correct, and

  Speaker 2 01:02
I think that's the right way, because once whose agents or our agent did things are set up, correct any change in the schema? You know, create, or update statements? And then once we deploy it, it will Auto created. So we don't need to go wire left.

  Speaker 1 01:20
The only, like, very scary part, right? For these, uh, the streaming concept, right? Yes, is, um, alternative. Let's say we do add a data attribute. Right, and we expect it to be populated by X number of. Streaming pipelines.

01:42
Correct? You know what I mean, like they all? I mean, it's almost you kind of have that problem in the other scenario as well, right? But the the difference is, is that like? The table becomes semi-more static. You know what I mean, like you'll have? Hmm.

  Speaker 2 02:02
So, so, again, my like, right now, as I am experimenting, right? That's the reason Korea create streaming table is in my pipeline. We will have a separate pipeline just for model deployment to do all these activities. Because. C5 plane is specific to Source correct. So, like, for each pipeline, we won't have created streaming like, we don't have to update at 10 different places, right, all the same tracks.

  Speaker 1 02:32
Okay, like you're saying that instead of create streaming table, you're going to say, insert into right or something like that. Yeah, something like that.

  Speaker 2 02:40
Yeah, but it will be a deployment by blend, right, like, create will be managed. Create order updates will be managed via one. By going on the model. And all the data related parts will be specific to the universal system. So, avlog has a level of bus.

  Speaker 1 03:00
Okay,

  Speaker 2 03:00
Yeah, because otherwise, let's say, right now. In my example, you will see create table in, you know, in the same pipeline, but like, if we have Opus, I will log. Then, everyone starts to, you know, mess with the schema, and we won't do that. So, okay, deployment will be so, like, that's what I mean, it would be, let's say, deploy pipeline.

03:21
Any changes in the pipeline? Um, you know, create, or update if x is something like that? And then your actual.

03:35
Okay. Because see, like with agents, and um, like morning, connected with Rahul as well, like he helped set up my system.

  Speaker 1 03:44
Um,

  Speaker 2 03:45
One good thing we will have is because data breaks has their own plugins. Once we set up our regions, then they can understand our architecture, right?

  Speaker 1 03:55
And then we won't write this. Create tables index manually. We will Define a rule. Json object

  Speaker 2 04:06
Based on objects, right? So you will modify okay. This schema Gina will modify the schema correct. Once it is approved, we check into the main branch. And then, once we don't know what region. It will create or update the deployment pipe for create streaming table. That's how I'm thinking only decision.

04:34
Concrete decision point is. Sdp or mosdp? I'm mainly taking on the failure scenarios, right? Like, that's where my worry is. A time travel I need to experiment. How it works. Or free running it. And once we have those, uh, you know, failure, or re-running points address, then I think we are good to go.

05:01
Okay, any decision point, um? I'm trying to conclude.

05:10
What I felt like, I showed the plugin to Gina, right, and she was experimenting and she is like? The existing model. Doesn't have such type of such things.

  Speaker 1 05:26
Is she like this that it will be pretty helpful and then you know she invited me for the Irwin demo as well? Hmm,

  Speaker 2 05:35
Basically, that you need to look at how you know modeling tool looks like, and what we can implement it.

05:45
Yeah, he was happy and. Let's see. We'll see if you end up using it, but That's all we got right now, so. We have to programmatically. We have to write. And then she told me, uh, for the power designer this version capturing right, it's so costly feature. They don't have it.

06:14
And it's these are like, we have the on period features. And she's, like, we end up, you know, not having that because it was costing too much. This was done in a couple of hours. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah.

  Speaker 1 06:28
You know, you know, uh? You know, patting up patting ourselves on the back of side. Great tool and everything. But yeah, by, by, so it's okay, because the the real thing is, like, at the end of the day, is, um. Uh, law of confusion on AIS DLC at the moment.

06:50
Like, a lot of nonsense going back and forth, right?

  Speaker 2 06:54
Um, so I basically told a nook and Sharon, like, I mean, to be honest with you, like?

  Speaker 1 07:01
I want to say them guys like, stop. What are you doing like, listen to me, you're along for the ride, just enjoy the ride. Okay. Like, I think what we need to do what I said was, like, okay, like, uh, every week, you guys ping me and say, hey, can you update the spreadsheet that somebody else is already paying me to update?

07:23
I'm like, is this your guys's level of involvement, you know, what I mean, like? So, I think what we need to do is, they're probably going to have, like, a daily stand up, like 30 minutes. And I think we do need? Build, plan, and like nailed down the Scopes where we're going to use this thing.

07:37
You know, what I mean? Um, and so. Like, and I just got off the phone with like the AIS DLC people. They're like, it's okay if you make your own skills, um, just like make them. In like the same? Kind of like if you make them in size, at least then, like, they're a reusable to other people.

07:57
And, like, I guess they have a skill in there called create skill, and it's not like, it's like it creates skill. It's not like the the the GitHub co-pilot create skill, um? It helps you create a skill, but within their kind of, you know, RBC, idea of a harness kind of situation.

08:16
And um? Uh, so they're okay if we create our own skills. We still want to use some of the skills that they're giving us here. You know what I mean, so we can show progress and all that, but we need to kind of like nail down. Um, some defined areas where we're going to use it.

08:36
So, for me, like those areas should be like a data model deployment, right? Like, we have kind of data development and data model deployment. Um. And then the next one. I personally would love. Source to. Um, like, Source data set. Uh, our canonical model. Kind of like mapping process.

09:05
So you can imagine, like Source data set, you have. Um, all of the files, all the attributes, all the definitions. You know what I mean, and then? Target to populate, and it basically just looks at the definitions between them and starts to go, right,

  Speaker 2 09:19
Yeah,

  Speaker 1 09:20
And output of that. If we have a clean Json object, right? And we can easily pass that clean Json object into, like a, and Implement some kind of Implement skill process. They'll generate. The the code for us to implement it, right? Okay. And so basically like that Json object will be like a data map with like Transformations, and then what we would need to do, or like somebody would need to do is like, sit down and like, look through that and say, okay, are we happy, right?

09:51
And then we step after that to generate the code. Execute the code right into the table, then start running tests, right?

10:02
Um. Next obvious area is like data quality checks. And then. Um. Data, quality checks, Etc checks. And then, finally, business event generation. Right? That's kind of like the sum of it. Do it, you know? Raul, are you kind of thinking the same thing? Yeah, yeah, my client with you.

10:26
Okay.

10:29
Yeah, so. I think what we'll have to do is like, when we set up these calls, we'll. We'll kind of lay that plan out, and then we'll pick the one that we're going to work on, right? Um. And we'll go from there.

10:46
Makes sense. Yeah. All right.

  Speaker 2 10:51
All right. Turn on my one thing. She is and write our descriptions. Yeah.

  Speaker 1 10:59
So we don't have them right now. Yeah, we don't have it right now, but at the same time, yeah. I don't know, but I'm just putting it around some governance. Something is required around that. Who will handle adjacent? The reason is. That is the. Key.

  Speaker 2 11:21
Yeah, absolutely. From pipeline to modeling to Auto generation for everything, right? So? I don't know how. That is an open question. Uh, like? To me, it should be dedicated. Like,

  Speaker 1 11:41
Well. Eventually, and it's something that Raj is actually in charge of right. Like, I think he hasn't done it yet because we don't really have a model. Um.

  Speaker 2 11:53
Okay,

  Speaker 1 11:53
But once, once you do, then it needs to have, like, a formal governed process, right,

  Speaker 2 11:58
Okay, okay? You know by happenstances?

  Speaker 1 12:06
I talked to Manish bhandari yesterday, and he was like saying he's like, and he's surprisingly he's a senior VP in finance, but he's surprisingly knew quite a bit about end of day contract. He knew enough to say that I don't think end of day contract's the right model for us.

12:21
Nice, and then, and then I was, like, you know, fully agree. And then he was, like, he's like, and but whatever model we moved to, you know, the other part about end of day contract that, like, I absolutely hate, is like, how long it takes to do anything? Like?

12:38
Every time you need to add a data attribute, it's a month. You know what I mean? Um. So why is it so inflexible and and I didn't really answer like in my head? It's not that the model's inflexible, it's the reality situation is just like so much documentation needs to be updated by the B8 by the modeling team.

13:01
Hey, that's a large part of it. And then it's the governance portion of it, right? Yeah, so we, you know, from the? If we get this right from a data management perspective or like a documentation perspective? Um. The output of that Json with an llm in front of it is all the documentation you need.

13:25
And then, if you have.

13:31
And it would have been great to have him like UDC, but databricks helps us so much doing this. It's like we just have one notebook that's like shared for everybody. And this is basically like, kind of like your learning guide, you know what I mean? Yeah, go through, and it'll like, build, you'll you'll end up building an entire query by the end of it, so it's like, okay, your first step, always query your Bridge contract State table okay, second step.

13:58
Always join to your contract position table. Okay, you know what I mean, like, whatever? Whatever, right?

14:08
And then, like if you kind of have those two things llm that can talk to the model, and that then, like, really, like, you know, um? The documentation part is you almost don't need all that documentation, right? Yeah, yeah, and like, cutie.

  Speaker 2 14:26
If this is needed and, well, the reason I will tell you is maybe because this model we need to explain? To so many different people, right?

  Speaker 1 14:34
At

  Speaker 2 14:35
One point, so yesterday I was talking with he reading, I spent almost two hours. And still, it was difficult to explain. You know, these arrogate King is how it joins. I was explaining with Excel. State is difficult, and then I realized, you know, we had the same issue you.

14:57
You asked me to just ask a lamp. And I, I had that point that this model is right. Just ask lln. Yeah, exactly.

  Speaker 1 15:12
Yeah, as long as it has that Json, the relationships are mapped, right? Like, it's not that, yeah, it's pretty straightforward. Yeah, I mean, like the first time people work with it, there's going to be something you know what I mean, like, for sure. I was doing it last night on the train ride home.

15:28
You know, especially all of the the technical columns that we have inside of it. Like, valid from valid two. Yeah, is current record source for some of the tables. It's almost all of the columns.

15:48
Some of those we have to get rid of, right? But like, um. Um. But you know what? At the end of the day, though, it's very easy to generate views. Oh, get up! Published a views and call today, right? And say, don't worry about it this field, right? Yes.

16:09
Okay. But yeah, so. Uh, I guess that's kind of like it for me. Um, I just wanted to go over that, uh? Um. Just let you guys know that, like, we'll set that. We'll set up that. That stand up. It'll be like us and then. Probably enough Sharon and margesh.

16:32
Um. And we're basically just going to detail. Find the what we're going to do, like, I'm sure Margesh is going to want to create one for.

16:43
Data quality, right? Um. Yeah. Yeah, we're gonna have to figure out how to play in the same sandbox.

16:58
I will just bring you my. It's not appropriate. This one.

17:08
Going to see if I have? The questions, dude, it does it say that. It does it say that it went to me.

17:19
I approved something this morning, then from you, but okay.

17:26
All right, yeah. Well, Mike, so you're working on generating the skills for this? Or

  Speaker 3 17:32
What,

  Speaker 4 17:33
Uh, like this, modeling things and to for the databrick skills, you said, like spec it, as the skill create skill command, right? So you're exploring that? Uh, do you want me to? No, no, I just asked, because if you're doing then, I would not, uh, you know, do that again.

17:49
So, just wanted to check with you.

  Speaker 1 17:52
You know?

  Speaker 4 18:06
So, which school we are talking about database on the modeling skills? Modeling. Oh yeah, so like the two specifically is like? Um, we need to. So, actually, let's start there, uh, like? Um. Abhishek. The model is this model in our current repo.

18:35
Um, once, okay.

  Speaker 1 18:39
So I created another pool for this schema force. It's inside.

  Speaker 2 18:46
Uh, but as as this model?

  Speaker 1 18:48
So I didn't check it. Right, but like, as the model going to live inside the scheme of forage.

  Speaker 2 18:55
No, it was so just decently under FDX 0.

  Speaker 1 19:03
Okay, okay. And then, just when I open it, all I'll see. Is that okay?

  Speaker 2 19:06
Okay, so follow everyone. We will give the plugin vsx correct installation is. Um, and a skill.

19:20
The the modeling script? Uh, yeah. So?

  Speaker 1 19:27
I think what we'll need is, uh, well, okay, but so that. But. Um, what's it called? Where is it? Your vsx file or whatever it was, yes. That's like one-time install on their machine. Okay, right? Yeah. Right? Um. One time installing their machine. Now, every time they open up the fdx0 data platform repo, they can click on that Json file, and we'll see the model.

20:00
And then probably we should have is like a doc's section. Yes. In your repo, we could have a doc section. But, like, you know, under docks have data model, right? Or, like, something like that? And then the explanation of how the model works can live in there, you know, yes?

20:21
So, like, yeah, so in short, it will be something here model.

  Speaker 2 20:28
I won't go to VSX here. No,

  Speaker 1 20:33
Don't play VSX here.

  Speaker 2 20:34
Yeah, it's. It's just out of, like, from that POC, people can take it, right? So basically, this will be the model. Any changes we will do it on feature Branch. For example, you are Gina.

  Speaker 1 20:45
As

  Speaker 2 20:46
They come at it, right? It will be three NFS. Don't see it here, but it will be three and a right, and then everyone can interact. Do things this model is the central piece, um, for our determined pipelines and everything. Yeah, under model, we'll have docs. Okay, there we'll have.

  Speaker 1 21:05
The documentation that explains the data model.

21:10
Right? So?

  Speaker 2 21:14
Rappel, do you want to, or is there any other skills between we need to create or not? Yeah, I think if

  Speaker 3 21:21
You're going with this STP, right? We have to have a bunch of data books related skills because everything will be data breaks, right? STP deployment, those kind of strategies. So, and if you are going with SGP, we will end up writing the python code for it, right, like using the decorators

  Speaker 2 21:36
No, no, no. So, what I'm envisioning is, let's say, we have this model, right? Yeah, now,

  Speaker 3 21:42
This

  Speaker 2 21:43
Model is ready. Let's say, contract rate tier terms is not there. We will use our skills. This will generate SQL code, so as DB is entirely SQL. Where I'm going to okay, the reason is. If we have deductive skills, right? It will. It will end up creating the same type of code.

22:05
Correct, but you can try. So it, I will.

22:15
So this won't be in this pipeline, but let's say this is the mapping. This is the X of UDC to canonical mapping, right? Okay. We'll ask skill to generate this. It will update the pipeline okay, and

  Speaker 3 22:32
If there are so initially, we will have this create table, right? But as then, when we add new columns or? We don't do something.

  Speaker 4 22:41
Um,

  Speaker 2 22:42
There will be a separate pipeline maintaining these schemas. Oh, okay, good morning.

  Speaker 4 22:47
Okay,

  Speaker 2 22:48
So I'm thinking, why? Ask people we won't write any of these things

  Speaker 4 22:53
Okay, and once it is generated, what's the deployment strategy?

  Speaker 2 23:00
Once it is generated, so I think.

23:05
For experimentation, right? Like morning, when we were discussing? I don't know. But like, from here, if you can trigger it, okay? Um, because I see as the pipeline is here sdb pipeline, I can see it here. And I can see the let's go right. We create an airflow job.

23:29
For the final deployment on. Yeah, or something like that, right? Yeah, so there is a deploy, um? Uh, pipeline later before.

23:43
So, basically, let's say you update anything here. And then there is a way to trigger it from here. You can test it.

  Speaker 1 23:52
Okay,

  Speaker 2 23:53
The pipeline will have some test associated if everything pass. You will check in and then all my flow will trigger the deploy notebook. All right, okay, is like? Um. It's like, maybe. Like, if we?

  Speaker 1 24:13
If we take the Json file, use it to generate tables using the spark declarative process, right? It's data code, and then maybe we have a verified step right against the code, right? Sounds so funny to, like, ask the same llm to verify that wrote it. You know what I mean, but it's like, it's?

24:37
Fresh

  Speaker 3 24:38
Contexts. A lot of times, you know, but so you gotta be one. And then, like, after we implement it, then.

  Speaker 1 24:49
Like after we execute the code. I don't know if there's another check that we need to do, you know, like, basically? I guess it's everything. Ran it ran, right? We're happy.

  Speaker 2 24:57
Yeah, like, so I really want for a Dev, right? Let's say if I'm developing a pipeline, uh, let's say, all this code is generated, right? From here. Also, I think we can trigger it. There is something.

25:12
We can trigger this pi













